src/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator/README.md, before:

# GeoBlazor Constructor Validator

## Purpose

This validator ensures that Blazor components in GeoBlazor projects follow the correct constructor patterns required by the .NET Dependency Injection container.

Specifically, it validates that classes inheriting from `ComponentBase` (or `MapComponent`) that have multiple constructors properly use the `[ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]` attribute on their parameterless constructor.

## Why This Matters

When a Blazor component has multiple constructors (both parameterless and parameterized), the DI container needs to know which constructor to use. The `[ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]` attribute tells the DI container to use the marked constructor when instantiating the component from Razor markup.

## Validation Rules

The validator checks the following:

1. **Classes that inherit from ComponentBase or MapComponent** - Only these classes are validated
2. **Classes with both parameterless and parameterized constructors** - The parameterless constructor must have the attribute
3. **Both `.cs` and `.gb.cs` files are validated** - Generated code must also follow the pattern

## What Gets Skipped

- Classes with only parameterless constructors (no attribute needed)
- Classes with only parameterized constructors (compiler will handle this)
- Non-ComponentBase classes

## Usage

The validator can be used with any GeoBlazor project (Core, Pro, etc.).

### Automatic Build Integration

The validator runs automatically before building GeoBlazor projects via an MSBuild target:

```xml
<Target Name="ValidateConstructors" BeforeTargets="Build">
    <Message Importance="high" Text="Validating constructor patterns..." />
    <Exec Command="dotnet run -- $(MSBuildProjectFullPath)"
          WorkingDirectory="$(ProjectDir)../dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator"
          ContinueOnError="false"
          IgnoreExitCode="false" />
</Target>
```

### Manual Execution

```bash
# From the validator directory
cd src/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator
dotnet run -- <path-to-project-file>

# Or from anywhere
dotnet run --project src/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator.csproj -- <path-to-project-file>
```

Examples:
```bash
# Validate GeoBlazor.Core
dotnet run -- ../dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.csproj

# Validate GeoBlazor.Pro
dotnet run -- ../dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Pro/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Pro.csproj
```

## Output

The validator reports:
- Number of files analyzed (including breakdown of `.cs` vs `.gb.cs` files)
- Success message if all classes are compliant
- List of non-compliant classes with their file paths if violations are found

## Example Violations

### ❌ Non-Compliant
```csharp
public class MyComponent : MapComponent
{
    public MyComponent() { }  // Missing [ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]

    public MyComponent(ILogger logger) { }
}
```

### ✅ Compliant
```csharp
public class MyComponent : MapComponent
{
    [ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]
    public MyComponent() { }

    public MyComponent(ILogger logger) { }
}
```

## Exit Codes

- `0` - All validations passed
- `1` - Validation failures found or error occurred

## Notes

- The validator uses Roslyn to analyze the C# syntax tree
- Only public constructors are checked (private/protected are ignored)
- Compiler-generated constructors are excluded from validation

Commit message:

tested and cleaned up program and readme with explanation in readme

src/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator/README.md, after:

# GeoBlazor Constructor Validator

## Purpose

This validator ensures that Blazor components in GeoBlazor projects follow the correct constructor patterns required by the .NET Dependency Injection container.

Specifically, it validates that classes inheriting from `ComponentBase` (or `MapComponent`) that have multiple constructors properly use the `[ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]` attribute on their parameterless constructor.

## Why This Matters

When a Blazor component has multiple constructors (both parameterless and parameterized), the DI container needs to know which constructor to use. The `[ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]` attribute tells the DI container to use the marked constructor when instantiating the component from Razor markup.

## Validation Rules

The validator checks the following:

1. **Classes that inherit from ComponentBase or MapComponent** - Only these classes are validated
2. **Classes with both parameterless and parameterized constructors** - The parameterless constructor must have the attribute
3. **Both `.cs` and `.gb.cs` files are validated** - Generated code must also follow the pattern

## What Gets Skipped

- Classes with only parameterless constructors (no attribute needed)
- Classes with only parameterized constructors (compiler will handle this)
- Non-ComponentBase classes

## Usage

The validator can be used with any GeoBlazor project (Core, Pro, etc.).

### Automatic Build Integration

The validator runs automatically before building GeoBlazor projects via an MSBuild target:

```xml
<Target Name="ValidateConstructors" BeforeTargets="Build">
    <Message Importance="high" Text="Validating constructor patterns..." />
    <Exec Command="dotnet run -- $(MSBuildProjectFullPath)"
          WorkingDirectory="$(ProjectDir)../dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator"
          ContinueOnError="false"
          IgnoreExitCode="false" />
</Target>
```

### Manual Execution

```bash
# From the validator directory
cd src/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator
dotnet run -- <path-to-project-file>

# Or from anywhere
dotnet run --project src/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.Validator.csproj -- <path-to-project-file>
```

Examples:
```bash
# Validate GeoBlazor.Core
dotnet run -- ../dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Core.csproj

# Validate GeoBlazor.Pro
dotnet run -- ../dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Pro/dymaptic.GeoBlazor.Pro.csproj
```

## Output

The validator reports:
- Number of files analyzed (including breakdown of `.cs` vs `.gb.cs` files)
- Success message if all classes are compliant
- List of non-compliant classes with their file paths if violations are found

## Example Violations

### ❌ Non-Compliant
```csharp
public class MyComponent : MapComponent
{
    public MyComponent() { }  // Missing [ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]

    public MyComponent(ILogger logger) { }
}
```

### ✅ Compliant
```csharp
public class MyComponent : MapComponent
{
    [ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]
    public MyComponent() { }

    public MyComponent(ILogger logger) { }
}
```

## Exit Codes

- `0` - All validations passed
- `1` - Validation failures found or error occurred

## Technical Implementation

### Roslyn Semantic Model

The validator leverages Roslyn's semantic model for accurate code analysis:

1. **Compilation-level analysis** - Instead of parsing individual files, the validator uses `compilation.GetSymbolsWithName()` to get all type symbols from the entire compilation
2. **Automatic partial class merging** - Roslyn's semantic model automatically merges partial classes into single `INamedTypeSymbol` instances, eliminating duplicate checking
3. **Complete type information** - The semantic model provides full inheritance chains, constructor details, and attribute information

### Handling Partial Classes

When a class is defined across multiple files (partial classes):
- Roslyn merges all partial definitions into a single symbol
- The validator checks the merged class only once
- If a violation is found, all source file locations are reported using `classSymbol.Locations`
- This ensures accurate validation without duplicate reports for partial classes

### File Source Tracking

The validator tracks source files through Roslyn's `Location` API:
- Each `INamedTypeSymbol` contains all `Locations` where the class is defined
- For partial classes, multiple locations are captured
- File paths are converted to relative paths for cleaner output
- Both `.cs` and `.gb.cs` (generated) files are included in analysis

## Notes

- The validator uses Roslyn's semantic model for complete type analysis
- Only public constructors are checked (private/protected are ignored)
- Compiler-generated constructors are excluded from validation
- **Attribute Name Resolution**: In C# source files, attributes appear as `[ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]`, but .NET's compiler automatically appends "Attribute" to create the full class name. Therefore, the validator checks for `"ActivatorUtilitiesConstructorAttribute"` when examining the semantic model, even though developers write `[ActivatorUtilitiesConstructor]` in their code
